Add docs for updating expired enterprise license (#5379)
solo-io/gloo: docs/content/operations/updating_license/_index.md

---
title: Updating Enterprise Licenses
description: How do I replace an expired license for Gloo Edge Enterprise?
weight: 50
---

Gloo Edge Enterprise requires a time-limited license key in order to fully operate. You initially provide this license at installation time, as described [here]({{< versioned_link_path fromRoot="/installation/enterprise/" >}}).

## Diagnose the Problem

Whether you're a prospective user using a trial license or a full Gloo Edge subscriber, this license can expire. When it does, you may see certain Gloo Edge pods start to display errors that are new to you.

> From the [k9s](https://k9scli.io/) display below, you can see that certain `gloo-system` pods fall into a `CrashLoopBackoff` state.

Author: Applied in a separate commit.

![k9s Display with Expired License]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/img/k9s-license-expired.png" %}})

> Following up with `glooctl check` confirms that there's something wrong, but it doesn't precisely point its finger at the root cause of the problem.

Author: Agreed. See #3520.

> Following up with `glooctl check` confirms that there's something wrong, but it doesn't precisely point its finger at the root cause of the problem.

Author: Making change in separate commit.

	* Not all containers in pod observability-958575cf6-fkhsw in namespace gloo-system are ready! Message: containers with unready status: [observability]
	* proxy check was skipped due to an error in checking deployments
* xds metrics check was skipped due to an error in checking deployments
```

But if you take a look at the logs for the failing `observability` deployment, they give us a more precise diagnosis:

```bash
% kubectl logs deploy/observability -n gloo-system
{"level":"fatal","ts":1628879186.1552186,"logger":"observability","caller":"cmd/main.go:24","msg":"License is invalid or expired, crashing - license expired","version":"1.8.0","stacktrace":"main.main\n\t/workspace/solo-projects/projects/observability/cmd/main.go:24\nruntime.main\n\t/usr/local/go/src/runtime/proc.go:225"}
```

One easy way to confirm this diagnosis is to paste your current license key into the [jwt.io debugger](http://jwt.io). Note that the date indicated by the `exp` header is in the past.

![jwt.io Confirms Expired License]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/img/jwt-io-license-expired.png" %}})

## Replace the Expired License

> If you're a new user whose trial license has expired, contact your Solo.io Account Executive for a fresh one, or fill out [this form](https://lp.solo.io/request-trial).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're a new user whose trial license has expired, contact your Solo.io Account Representative for a new license key, or fill out [this form](https://lp.solo.io/request-trial). Make sure to note the expiration date so that you can later replace this new license key before it expires.
```

> The Gloo Edge Enterprise license is installed by default into a Kubernetes `Secret` named `license` in the `gloo-system` namespace. If that is the case for your installation, then you can use a simple bash script to replace the expired key by patching the `license` secret:

Reviewer: > If that is the case for your installation

How would they check if this is not the case? Something like:
`kubectl get secrets --all-namespaces | grep 'license'`
?

(or maybe it could be named something different, too?)

Author: Yes, that `kubectl` command should help locate the secret if it's installed in a non-standard location. But for users who are savvy enough to install in a non-standard location, they'll know that.

Agreed that the `license` secret should have a more descriptive name, like `gloo-edge-license`.
